README.md, before:

# DevSound
DevSound is a sound driver for the Game Boy which supports pulse width manipulation, arpeggios, and multiple waveforms. DevSound was designed with homebrew games in mind, so you can easily include it in your project.

# Building the demo ROM on Windows
1. Grab the RGBASM binaries from https://github.com/rednex/rgbds. If you already have them, you can skip this step.
2. Run build.bat. If that doesn't work, try either adding the RGBASM binaries to your PATH or copying them to the repository directory.

# Adding DevSound to your project
1. Copy DevSound.asm, DevSound_Variables.asm, DevSound_Constants.asm, DevSound_Macros.asm, DevSound_SongData.asm, and NoiseData.bin to your project directory.
2. Allocate a ROM bank for DevSound. Make note of the bank number (unless your ROM does not use banking).
3. Add the following line to your main loop: `call DS_Play`
4. In order to load a song, use the following code:
```
ld a,SongID  ; replace SongID with the ID of the song you want to load
call  DS_Init
```
5. In order to stop playback, use the following line of code: `call DS_Stop`
6. In order to fade sound in/out, use the following code:
```
ld  a,X ; replace X with 0 to fade out, replace X with 1 to fade in
call DS_Fade
```
7. If you need help, let me know. I can usually be reached on IRC at irc.efnet.org #gbdev, with the nick DevEd. I may also be reached on Discord in this server: https://discord.gg/gpBxq85. Just ping me (I go by the name DevEd on that server) if you need anything.

# Projects that use DevSound

- **BotB Invitro** (https://github.com/DevEd2/BotBInvite) - A one-screen Game Boy invite I created along with Pigu for Battle of the Bits. *Note: Uses an earlier version of DevSound*

- **Aevilia** (https://github.com/ISSOtm/Aevilia-GB) - An RPG for Game Boy Color by ISSOtm, which I'm providing music for.

- **Scoot the Burbs** (https://github.com/DevEd2/ScootTheBurbs) - A Vinesauce-related project I am currently working on.

If you are using DevSound in your project, let me know and I'll add it to this list.

# Frequently Asked Questions
*TODO*

Commit message:

Move demo files to a separate directory Less confusion as to what to do to include the project. Overall cleaner.

README.md, after:

# DevSound
DevSound is a sound driver for the Game Boy which supports pulse width manipulation, arpeggios, and multiple waveforms. DevSound was designed with homebrew games in mind, so you can easily include it in your project.

# Building a demo ROM and/or GBS
Note that the demo ROM is included already; these instructions are if you want to try your own modifications.

## Windows
1. Grab the [RGBASM binaries](https://github.com/rednex/rgbds/releases). If you already have them, you can skip this step.
2. Open a command prompt in the `demo` folder.
3. Run build.bat. If that doesn't work, try either adding the RGBASM binaries to your PATH or copying them to the repository directory.

## Linux
1. Install [RGBDS](https://github.com/rednex/rgbds). If RGBDS is already installed, skip this step.
2. Open a terminal in the `demo` folder.
3. Run `make`.

# Adding DevSound to your project
1. Copy DevSound.asm, DevSound_Variables.asm, DevSound_Constants.asm, DevSound_Macros.asm, DevSound_SongData.asm, and NoiseData.bin to your project directory. If you're not using a file such as [hardware.inc](https://github.com/tobiasvl/hardware.inc) or gbhw.inc, you will need to include it as well.
2. Allocate a ROM bank for DevSound. Make note of the bank number (unless your ROM does not use banking).
3. Add the following line to your main loop: `call DS_Play`
4. In order to load a song, use the following code:
```
ld a,SongID  ; replace SongID with the ID of the song you want to load
call  DS_Init
```
5. In order to stop playback, use the following line of code: `call DS_Stop`
6. In order to fade sound in/out, use the following code:
```
ld  a,X ; replace X with 0 to fade out, replace X with 1 to fade in
call DS_Fade
```
7. If you need help, let me know. I can usually be reached on IRC at irc.efnet.org #gbdev, with the nick DevEd. I may also be reached on Discord in this server: https://discord.gg/gpBxq85. Just ping me (I go by the name DevEd on that server) if you need anything.

# Projects that use DevSound

- **BotB Invitro** (https://github.com/DevEd2/BotBInvite) - A one-screen Game Boy invite I created along with Pigu for Battle of the Bits. *Note: Uses an earlier version of DevSound*

- **Aevilia** (https://github.com/ISSOtm/Aevilia-GB) - An RPG for Game Boy Color by ISSOtm, which I'm providing music for.

- **Scoot the Burbs** (https://github.com/DevEd2/ScootTheBurbs) - A Vinesauce-related project I am currently working on.

If you are using DevSound in your project, let me know and I'll add it to this list.

# Frequently Asked Questions
*TODO*
